And March of this year, Connie and I had the privilege of visiting the branches in Ecuador and Chile.
Our first stop was Chile.
The country of Chile measures 2,700 miles from its northernmost point to its southernmost.
So if we could take the country of Chile and lay it across the contiguous United States,
Chile would come only about 100 miles short of meeting the United States distance from end to end.
This geography provides for a remarkable variety of climates and landscapes within the country.
The branch office is located in the capital city Santiago, where about 130 brothers and sisters are serving.
One of the first to preach in Chile was an anointed sister, K. Palm.
Originally from Germany, she arrived in Chile in 1936,
and she preached from Chile's northernmost town to its southernmost.
She showed remarkable courage and zeal as a single sister to preach over those thousands of miles.
Sister Palm witnessed to those in sulfur camps in the Andes Mountains, men in silver mines, sheep ragers, and many others.
Interestingly, not too long ago, Sister Palm's niece, who is not one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
approached a metropolitan witnessing card in Germany.
And she said that she had heard about her aunt and some of the work that she had done in Chile,
and she was planning a visit to that country.
So the brothers contacted the Chile branch, and the branch arranged for those who knew a lot about Sister Palm to spend time with this niece.
And she learned all about her aunt's hard work and courageous activity throughout Chile.
And the niece was moved to hear about all of her aunt's hard work.
When Sister Palm arrived in Chile, there were 50 publishers in the country.
And last year, the peak number of publishers was about 78,500.
Jehovah certainly blessed the work.
One of the territories assigned to the Chile branch is Easter Island,
located more than 2,000 miles off the Chilean coast.
And although being a remote island in the South Pacific, the good news is reaching that part of the Earth.
For example, notice the experience of this sister, Sister Patricia Riroco.
A number of years ago, when Patricia was studying and decided to get baptized,
her mother was so upset and so opposed, she put Patricia out of the house.
And when Patricia's father approved of her decision to get baptized,
her mother threw the husband out too.
Years went by and in 2010, Patricia suffered the loss of her son in a tragic accident.
But when her mother saw the kindness and the love and the support from the brothers to her daughter,
she began studying the Bible.
And as for Patricia, despite the problems she's had,
she is enjoying very much serving as a translator,
helping our literature to get into the Rapa, a Rapa Nui language,
one of the two languages spoken on this island.
She loves translating, she feels so fulfilled in doing it,
and she sees the results.
In the past, some of her Bible students stopped studying,
but when Patricia had some literature in their own language, Rapa Nui,
she went back, they resumed the studying, and the students said,
we're finally understanding the truth.
On March 14th, a special meeting was held, originated from the L-Trabel assembly hall shown here.
In addition to those in attendance at the assembly hall,
for the first time in Chile's history,
the special meeting was streamed throughout the entire branch territory.
The total attendance was 97,809.
And at the conclusion of our visit,
the Bethel family in Chile requested that their warm love and greetings be shared with all of you.
Our next stop was Ecuador.
The branch is located near the city of Guayaquil,
and as you can see, it's well maintained and it's a beautiful setting.
There are about 190 brothers and sisters working there at Bethel.
We'd like to share some experiences from Ecuador with you.
The first is from the city of Coenca.
A woman there entered the business place of a brother a few years ago,
and she noticed the track, the end of false religion.
She picked it up and said to the brother,
how wonderful this is going to be when this happens,
and especially to those Jehovah's Witnesses.
I can't stand them.
The brother asked the woman if she had ever had an opportunity to talk with Jehovah's Witnesses,
and she said, no, nor do I want to.
I wish they would disappear.
They're always coming to my door.
I never listened to them, and I never will.
The brother said, well, I have some news for you.
I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
and she was so shocked and so ashamed
that she left immediately without saying another word.
But the next day, she came back to our brother's business place
to apologize, and she wanted the track.
And the brother also placed with her
my book of Bible stories.
And she said, well, how much does this cost?
And he says, well, there's no cost.
Why don't you read it?
If you enjoy it, you can bring back a donation to the worldwide work.
Well, a week later, she came back with a donation,
and she says, this book is fabulous.
My husband is reading it to our children every night.
Well, due to work issues, the woman and her family moved to another city.
But when the brother was saying goodbye to her,
he says, now I have a request.
The next time witnesses call it your home
and your new place, listen to them.
Well, about three years went by, and at an assembly,
this woman with her children came up to the brother and said,
I'm the woman who said, I can't stand Jehovah's Witnesses.
But she says, I complied with your request.
When they knocked on my door, I listened.
I enjoyed it, and look, here I am at this assembly.
My husband supports us in our Bible study.
They regularly attend meetings and their family is showing clear love for Jehovah.
Another experience is about metropolitan preaching work.
A man walked by the cart and the signs at the cart caught his attention.
He turned around and began to look at it.
And the sister there approached him
and asked if he needed some information.
And he says, well, no, I'm going to undercover policeman.
I never come down this way.
I don't know why I came down this way today.
But this cart caught my attention.
Well, that led to a 45-minute discussion,
and our sister was able to explain a lot of answers
for his Bible questions.
Well, the next day, this policeman came back
and a brother at the carts had a study with him
for a half hour in the Bible Teachbook.
The brother made arrangements to the meeting at his home to continue the study
and as the man was leaving the cart, he took the family happiness book.
But he sat down just a little away from the cart began reading it.
And just a little while later, the brother at the cart looked over there
and this man was witnessing to other people in the street
about what he had been learning.
Well, sometimes the response at these carts may not be a Bible study,
but it may be funny sometimes.
A missionary at a stand noticed a woman staring intently
at the cover of an awake magazine that showed a woman holding a child.
And this woman stared so long at the cover of this awake
that the missionary thought, wow, this woman must have a very profound question on her mind.
So he went up to her and he says, what are you thinking?
She pointed to the woman on the magazine cover and said, I've been wondering,
how can I achieve the same hair color as this woman?
All sorts of responses.
On March 21st, a special meeting was held at the assembly hall near the branch.
And for the first time in Ecuador's history, the special meeting was streamed
throughout the entire country, a total of 115,453 attended.
And a highlight of Ecuador's theoretical history was the international convention
that was held there in January this year.
And it was just an evidence of Jehovah's continued blessing of the work there
since the preaching work started there back in 1935.
Well, back in 1994, November, brother Hinchel was in Ecuador
and he was there to dedicate some expanded branch facilities.
And he alluded to the growth in his dedication talk back there in 1994.
At that time, when he was there, there were 26,000 publishers in Ecuador.
And today, there are over 85,500.
Please give your attention to this brief video that will show little excerpts
from brother Hinchel's talk at that dedication program back in 1994
and then will lead right on into some scenes from this year's International Convention in Quito.
The real pleasure to be with the Beffel families and the brothers
and brothers of the people who have been here for the past 246 years.
It's a great pleasure to be with the brothers and brothers of the people
who have been here for the past 246 years.
The grand total 148,246.
Well, it was a real pleasure to be with the Beffel families
and the brothers in these two countries.
We thoroughly enjoyed it.
And all along the way, they expressed sincere appreciation for all the work
the governing body is doing in their behalf and the support
that the Beffel family here provides as well.
So to all of you, warm loving greetings from Chile and Ecuador.